== Primitives

=== atom
A string of letters, numbers, or special characters other than parentheses, similar to a string.
<b>Examples</b>
  atom
  1982
  $abc*
  
=== list
A collection of S-expressions, similar to an array
<b>Examples</b>
  (a b c)
  (a (x y x) (b) c)

=== car
Returns the first S-expression form a list.
<b>Arguments</b> a non-empty list
<b>Examples</b>
  car (a b c)  # => a
<b>Ruby Equivalent</b>
  ['a', 'b', 'c'].first  # => 'a'

=== cdr
Returns the passed list with the first S-expression removed.
<b>Arguments</b> a non-empty list
<b>Example</b>
  cdr (a b c)  # => (b c)
<b>Ruby Equivalent</b>
  ['a', 'b', 'c'].unshift  # => ['b', 'c']

=== cons
Adds the first argument (an S-expression) to the beginning of the second argument (a list).
<b>Arguments</b> takes two arguments (1) any S-expression and (2) any list.
<b>Example</b>
  cons z (a b c)  # => (z a b c)
<b>Ruby Equivalent</b>
  ['a', 'b', 'c'].unshift('z')  # => ['z', 'a', 'b', 'c']

=== null?
Checks if the passed argument is an empty list. Returns boolean. In practice, it returns false for everything except an empty list.
<b>Arguments</b> a list
<b>Example</b>
  null? (a b c)  # => false
<b>Ruby Equivalent</b>
  ['a', 'b', 'c'].empty?  # => false

=== atom?
Check if the passed argument is an atom. Returns boolean.
<b>Arguments</b> any S-expression
<b>Example</b>
  atom? abc  # => true
<b>Ruby Equivalent</b>
  'abc'.is_a?(String)  # => true

=== eq?
Tests equality of two non-numeric atoms. Returns boolean.
<b>Arguments</b> takes two arguments – both of them must be non-numeric atoms
<b>Example</b>
  eq? abc abc  # => true
<b>Ruby Equivalent</b>
  'abc' == 'abc'  # => true
  
=== lat?
Checks if the passed list contains only atoms (no lists). Returns boolean.
<b>Arguments</b> takes a list
<b>Example</b>
  lat? (a b c)  # => true
<b>Ruby Equivalent</b>
  ['a', 'b', 'c'].all? { |i| i.is_a?(String) }

=== cond
(cond . . . ) asks questions

=== lambda
(lambda . . . ) creates a function; 

=== define
(define . . . ) gives it a name.

=== or
(or ... ) asks two questions, one at a time. If the first one is true it stops and answers true. Otherwise it asks the second question and answers with whatever the second question answers.
<b>Example</b>
  (or (null? (a b c)) (atom? dummy) )  # => true
<b>Ruby Equivalent</b>
  ['a', 'b', 'c'].empty? || 'dummy'.is_a(String)   # => true



== Problems

Write the function <tt>lat?</tt> using some, but not necessarily all, of the following functions:
<tt>car</tt> <tt>cdr</tt> <tt>cons</tt> <tt>null?</tt> <tt>atom?</tt> and <tt>eq?</tt>

<b>LISP</b>
  # sudo code
  lambda lat?(array)
    return false unless (atom? (car array))
    (null? array) ? true : (lat? (cdr array))
  end
  
  # actual answer
  (define lat?
    (lambda (l)
      (cond
        ((null? l) #t) 
        ((atom? (car l)) (lat? (cdr l))) 
        (else #f))))
  
<b>Ruby</b>
  def lat?(array)
    return false unless array.shift.is_a?(String)
    array.empty? ? true : lat?(array)
  end

